
# CFU | JS Functions
<h2 class="raw">Check For Understanding</h2>
<p></p>
<p>At the end of each lesson, you will find the &ldquo;<strong>Check For Understanding</strong>&rdquo; (CFU) section. This section contains exercises to help you practice the concepts covered in the lesson.</p>
<p>Follow the instructions outlined in each exercise and code your solution to complete the exercise.</p>
<p>Try your best to solve the exercise on your own before checking the solution. Nevertheless, if it takes you more time than estimated, feel free to reference the solution and then go back and complete the exercise!</p>
<p></p>
<h2 class="raw">Activity Format: Group Challenge</h2>
<p></p>
<p>&ldquo;Group Challenge&rdquo; is an activity where each member of the group will answer a question individually and then explain it to their team-mates, going through as many of the questions as possible.</p>
<p>When each person has answered their question, they will have to explain it to the rest of the group and how they went about finding the solution. The solution can then be revealed and the group can either move onto the next person if correct, or discuss further if incorrect.</p>
<p>The process is then repeated for the remaining members of the group. Once everyone has answered and presented their solution for the first three questions, you can move on and answer the next set of questions!</p>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-info">
<p>The duration for this activity is 30 minutes.</p>
</div>


Important tips to remember when writing **JavaScript** in **Codepen**:

- Write your code only in the **JS tab** of the **Codepen**. You can hide the HTML/CSS tabs for now.
- Open the **console** by clicking on the **Console** button in the bottom left corner of the Codepen.
- To execute your code, click on the **Run** button located at the top, next to the Save button.
- You can always clear your console's previous results by clicking the **Clear** button located in the **console** tab.



<p></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">1. Dog Years Converter</h4>
<p>Your task is to create a function that takes the number of dog years and converts it to human years.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>convertDogYears</code> that has one parameter: <code>dogYears</code>.</li>
<li class="raw">The function should <em>convert the number of dog years into human years</em> using the formula:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>human years = dog years * 7</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should return a number representing the human years.</li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>convertDogYears</code> and give it a number argument with the amount to convert. Then you can console.log the result. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>const result = convertDogYears(11);</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution


function convertDogYears (dogYears) {
  return dogYears * 7;
}

const result = convertDogYears(11);
console.log(`11 dog years equals ${result} human years`);
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">2. Currency Converter</h4>
<p>Your task is to create a function that takes the amount of one currency and converts it to another currency.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>convertDollarsToEuros</code> that receives one parameter: <code>dollarAmount</code>.</li>
<li class="raw">The function should <em>convert the specified amount of dollars to euros</em> using the formula:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>euros = dollars * 0.92</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should return a number representing the amount of Euros.</li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>convertDollarsToEuros</code> and give it a number argument with the amount to convert. Then you can console.log the result. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>const result = convertDollarsToEuros(115);</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution

function convertDollarsToEuros (dollarAmount) {
  return dollarAmount * 0.92
}

const result = convertDollarsToEuros(115);
console.log('result', result);
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">3. Bootcamp Finder</h4>
<p>Create a function that takes a country name and prints back the city name in that country where Ironhack has a campus.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>findBootcamp</code> that receives one parameter: <code>country</code> which is a string.</li>
<li class="raw">The function should console.log the name of the city where Ironhack has a campus:
<ul>
<li class="raw"><em>If</em> <code>country</code> is equal to <code>"USA"</code>, console.log <code>"Miami campus"</code>.</li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else if</em> <code>country</code> is equal to <code>"France"</code>, console.log <code>"Paris campus"</code>.</li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else if</em> <code>country</code> is equal to <code>"Germany"</code>, console.log <code>"Berlin campus"</code>.</li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else</em>, console.log <code>"Remote"</code>.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should not return any value, but just console.log text as explained above.</li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>findBootcamp</code> and give it a string argument with the name of the country. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>findBootcamp("France");</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution


function findBootcamp (country) {
  if (country === "USA") {
    console.log("Miami campus");
  }
  else if (country === "France") {
    console.log("Paris campus");
  }
  else if (country === "Germany") {
    console.log("Berlin campus");
  }
  else {
    console.log("Remote");
  }
}


findBootcamp("France"); // ==&gt; Paris campus
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">4. Get Discount</h4>
<p>Create a function prints the amount of discount that different type of employees in a company get.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>getDiscountInfo</code> that receives one parameter: <code>employeeType</code> which is a string.</li>
<li class="raw">The function should console.log the text specifying the amount of discount available:
<ul>
<li class="raw"><em>If</em> <code>employeeType</code> is equal to <code>"part-time employee"</code>, console.log <code>"10% discount"</code></li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else if</em> <code>employeeType</code> is equal to <code>"full-time employee"</code>, console.log <code>"20% discount"</code>.</li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else if</em> <code>employeeType</code> is equal to <code>"manager"</code>, console.log <code>"30% discount"</code>.</li>
<li class="raw"><em>Else</em>, console.log <code>"No discount"</code>.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should not return any value, but just console.log text as explained above.</li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>getDiscountInfo</code> and give it a string argument with the employee type. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>getDiscountInfo("manager");</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution

function getDiscountInfo (employeeType) {
  if (employeeType === "part-time employee") {
    console.log("10% discount");
  }
  else if (employeeType === "full-time employee") {
    console.log("20% discount");
  }
  else if (employeeType === "manager") {
    console.log("30% discount");
  }
  else {
    console.log("No discount");
  }
}


getDiscountInfo("full-time employee"); // ==&gt; 20% discount
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">5. Price After Tax</h4>
<p>Create a function that takes the <em>price</em> and <em>tax percentage</em> and returns a string representing the final price.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>getPriceAfterTax</code> that receives two parameters:
<ul>
<li class="raw"><code>price</code> which is a number</li>
<li class="raw"><code>tax</code> which is a number representing tax %.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should return a string representing the final price with the tax added, in the following format:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p>123 $</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">To calculate the final price use the formula: <code>final price = price + (price * tax / 100) </code>.</li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>getPriceAfterTax</code> passing it the required arguments. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>const label = getPriceAfterTax(300, 21);</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution

function getPriceAfterTax (price, tax) {
  const finalPrice = price + (price * tax / 100);
  
  const finalPriceString = `${finalPrice} $`;
  
  return finalPriceString;
}
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">6. Id Card Generator</h4>
<p>Create a function that takes the <em>first name</em>, <em>last name</em> and <em>year of birth</em> and returns a string showing the full name and the age of the person.</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>generateIdCard</code> that receives three parameters:
<ul>
<li class="raw"><code>firstName</code> which is a string</li>
<li class="raw"><code>lastName</code> which is a string</li>
<li class="raw"><code>birthYear</code> which is a number</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="raw">The function should return a string containing full name and the age of the person in the following format:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p>Jane Doe - 45 years old</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">To calculate the age use the formula: <code>age = current year - year of birth</code></li>
<li class="raw">To check your code, invoke the function <code>generateIdCard</code> passing it the required arguments. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>const idCard = generateIdCard("John", "Doe", 1984);</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution

function generateIdCard(firstName, lastName, birthYear) {
  const age = 2022 - birthYear;
  
  const idString = `${firstName} ${lastName} - ${age} years old`;
  
  return idString;
}
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<h4 class="raw">7. Bonus | Calculator</h4>
<p>Create a function ac as a calculator, that takes a <em>math symbol</em>, and two numbers and returns a result of the mathematical operation.</p>
<ul>
<li class="raw">To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">Create a function named <code>calculator</code> that receives <strong>three parameters</strong>:
<ul>
<li class="raw">The <strong>first parameter</strong> will be the math symbol.</li>
<li class="raw">The <strong>second and the third parameter</strong> will be the numbers that will be used for the equation.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="raw">Inside the function, create a <strong>conditional</strong> that checks the value of the first parameter (that could be either: <code>"+"</code>, <code>"-"</code>, <code>"*"</code> or <code>"/"</code>) and, depending on it, will console.log the correct math equation between the two remaining two parameters.</li>
<li class="raw">To test your code, invoke the function with different arguments. Example:
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><code>calculator("+", 5, 3)</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">// Solution


function calculator(symbol, num1, num2) {
  // symbol will be the math symbol passed in the function invocation
  // num1 and num2 will be the second and third arguments passed
 
  if (symbol === '+') {
    console.log(num1 + num2);
  } else if (symbol === '-') {
    console.log(num1 - num2);
  } else if (symbol === '*') {
    console.log(num1 * num2);
  } else if (symbol === '/') {
    console.log(num1 / num2);
  } else {
    console.log('Symbol unknown');
  }
}
 

// Check your code:
calculator('+', 5, 3); // &lt;= 8
calculator('*', 5, 9); // &lt;= 45
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<hr />