# CFU | JS Strings
<h2 class="raw">Check For Understanding</h2>
<p>At the end of each lesson, you will find the &ldquo;<strong>Check For Understanding</strong>&rdquo; (CFU) section. This section contains exercises to help you practice the concepts covered in the lesson.</p>
<p>Follow the instructions outlined in each exercise and code your solution to complete the exercise.</p>
<p>Try your best to solve the exercise on your own before checking the solution. Nevertheless, if it takes you more time than estimated, feel free to reference the solution and then go back and complete the exercise!</p>
<p></p>
<h2 class="raw">Activity Format: Individual Challenge</h2>
<p></p>
<p>&ldquo;Individual Challenge&rdquo; is an activity where students work individually. The facilitator will place everyone in separate Zoom breakout rooms, which will give you the opportunity to complete the exercise on your own.</p>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-info">
<p>The duration for this activity is 30 minutes.</p>
</div>


Important tips to remember when writing **JavaScript** in **Codepen**:

- Write your code only in the **JS tab** of the **Codepen**. You can hide the HTML/CSS tabs for now.
- Open the **console** by clicking on the **Console** button in the bottom left corner of the Codepen.
- To execute your code, click on the **Run** button located at the top, next to the Save button.
- You can always clear your console's previous results by clicking the **Clear** button located in the **console** tab.


<p></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">1. Turtle Concatenation</h4>
<p></p>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const turtle1 = 'Leonardo';
const turtle2 = 'Raphael';
const turtle3 = 'Donatello';
const turtle4 = 'Michelangelo';

let allTurtles = '';

// Your code here:

</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Your task is to concatenate the existing strings into one large string:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use the <code>+=</code> operator to concatenate the value of <code>turtle1</code> to the string <code>allTurtles</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to print the new value of the variable <code>allTurtles</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong> <code>'Leonardo'</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Repeat the same process by concatenating the names from the three remaining variables in order.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Hint:</strong> In a new string, each name should be separated by a space. You will need to manually add an empty space when concatenating the remaining strings.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Once more, use <code>console.log()</code> to print the updated value of the variable <code>allTurtles</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong> <code>'Leonardo Raphael Donatello Michelangelo'</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const turtle1 = 'Leonardo';
const turtle2 = 'Raphael';
const turtle3 = 'Donatello';
const turtle4 = 'Michelangelo';

let allTurtles = '';

// Concatenate an empty space plus the string value to allTurtles
allTurtles += turtle1;
allTurtles += ' ' + turtle2;
allTurtles += ' ' + turtle3;
allTurtles += ' ' + turtle4;

// Another way of doing it:
// allTurtles += ' ' + turtle2 + ' ' + turtle3 + ' ' + turtle4

console.log(allTurtles);
// =&gt; 'Leonardo Raphael Donatello Michelangelo'
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">2. South Park Slice</h4>
<p></p>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const southParkCharacters = 'Stan Kyle Eric Kenny';

// Your code here:

</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Your task is to split the existing string <code>southParkCharacters</code> into two strings, making each string contain two names:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>First, using the property <code>.length</code> find the length of the string and print it in the console.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Next, use the string length to get the index number of the string&rsquo;s middle. To get the middle index, use the formula: <code>string.length / 2</code></p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Using the method <code>.slice()</code> copy and <em>store the first half of the string</em> (e.g., <code>"Stan Kyle"</code>) to a new variable called <code>pair1</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Using the method <code>.slice()</code> copy and <em>store the second half of the string</em> (e.g., <code>"Eric Kenny"</code>) to a new variable called <code>pair2</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to print the new substrings stored in variables <code>pair1</code> and <code>pair2</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong></p>
<pre><code class="text hljs raw">Stan Kyle
Eric Kenny
</code></pre>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const southParkCharacters = 'Stan Kyle Eric Kenny';

// Get the length of the string
console.log(southParkCharacters.length); // =&gt; 20


// Get the middle index of the string
const middle = southParkCharacters.length / 2;
console.log(middle);  // =&gt; 10


// Copy and store the name pair substrings in new variables
const pair1 = southParkCharacters.slice(0, middle);
const pair2 = southParkCharacters.slice(middle, southParkCharacters.length);

console.log(pair1); // ==&gt; 'Stan Kyle '
console.log(pair2); // ==&gt; 'Eric Kenny'
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">3. Cherry Picking</h4>
<p></p>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const fruit = 'Apple Banana Cherry Mango';


// Your code here:

</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Your task is to find the index of a substring and copy that substring into a new variable:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>First, using the method <code>.indexOf()</code> <em>find the start index of the substring <code>"Cherry"</code></em> in the string stored in variable <code>fruit</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p>For example, substring <code>"Banana"</code> starts on the index <code>6</code>.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Next, using the method <code>.slice()</code> and the start index you obtained in the previous step, copy and store the substring <code>"Cherry"</code>to a new variable called <code>favoriteFruit</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to print the new substrings stored in the variable <code>favoriteFruit</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong></p>
<pre><code class="text hljs raw">Cherry
</code></pre>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const fruit = 'Apple Banana Cherry Mango';


// Get the start index of the substring "Cherry"
const startIndex = fruit.indexOf("Cherry");
console.log(startIndex); // ==&gt; 13


// Copy and store the substrings "Cherry" to a new variable
const favoriteFruit = fruit.slice(startIndex, startIndex + 6);
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">4. Important Announcement</h4>
<p></p>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const message = 'important announcement!';


// Your code here:

</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Your task is to convert an existing string to uppercase:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>Using the method <code>.toUpperCase()</code> convert the string stored in the variable <code>message</code> to uppercase.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Store the uppercased string to a new variable called <code>urgentMessage</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to print the new uppercased string stored in the variable <code>urgentMessage</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong></p>
<pre><code class="text hljs raw">IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!
</code></pre>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const message = 'important announcement!';


const urgentMessage = message.toUpperCase();
console.log(urgentMessage); // ==&gt; 'IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!'
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">5. Capitalizing Names</h4>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const name = "ava";
const surname = "scott";


// Your code here:


</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Your task is to format the existing strings and convert their starting letters to uppercase:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>Format the string <code>name</code> and convert its starting letter to uppercase. You can do this using the <em>string bracket notation</em><code>[]</code> and the <em>string methods <code>.toUpperCase()</code></em> and <em><code>.slice()</code></em>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Store the uppercased string to a new variable called <code>nameFormatted</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected result:</strong> <code>'ava'</code> --&gt; <code>'Ava'</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Next, format the string <code>surname</code> and convert its starting letter to uppercase. Again, you should use the <em>string bracket notation</em><code>[]</code> and the <em>string methods <code>.toUpperCase()</code></em> and <em><code>.slice()</code></em>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected result:</strong> <code>'scott'</code> --&gt; <code>'Scott'</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Store the uppercased string to a new variable called <code>surnameFormatted</code>.</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Using <code>console.log()</code> and concatenation, print out the <code>nameFormatted</code> and <code>surnameFormatted</code> together, on the same line.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong></p>
<pre><code class="text hljs raw">'Ava Scott'
</code></pre>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const name = "ava";
const surname = "scott";


const nameFormatted = name[0].toUpperCase() + name.slice(1, name.length);
console.log(nameFormatted); // ==&gt; 'Ava'


const surnameFormatted = surname[0].toUpperCase() + surname.slice(1, surname.length);
console.log(surnameFormatted); // ==&gt; 'Scott'


console.log(`${nameFormatted} ${surnameFormatted}`); 
// ==&gt; Ava Scott
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<hr />