# CFU | JS Numbers
<h2 class="raw">Check For Understanding</h2>
<p>At the end of each lesson, you will find the &ldquo;<strong>Check For Understanding</strong>&rdquo; (CFU) section. This section contains exercises to help you practice the concepts covered in the lesson.</p>
<p>Follow the instructions outlined in each exercise and code your solution to complete the exercise.</p>
<p>Try your best to solve the exercise on your own before checking the solution. Nevertheless, if it takes you more time than estimated, feel free to reference the solution and then go back and complete the exercise!</p>
<p></p>
<h2 class="raw">Activity Format: Individual Challenge</h2>
<p>&ldquo;Individual Challenge&rdquo; is an activity where students work individually. The facilitator will place everyone in separate Zoom breakout rooms, which will give you the opportunity to complete the exercise on your own.</p>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-info">
<p>The duration for this activity is 30 minutes.</p>
</div>


Important tips to remember when writing **JavaScript** in **Codepen**:

- Write your code only in the **JS tab** of the **Codepen**. You can hide the HTML/CSS tabs for now.
- Open the **console** by clicking on the **Console** button in the bottom left corner of the Codepen.
- To execute your code, click on the **Run** button located at the top, next to the Save button.
- You can always clear your console's previous results by clicking the **Clear** button located in the **console** tab.



<p></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">1. Guess the Expression Result</h4>
<p></p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">Without running the below code, make a guess what the result of each expression is going to be.</li>
<li class="raw">Once you are done note down the results you can up with.</li>
<li class="raw">Next, to check the result open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>code</strong>.</li>
<li class="raw">To see the actual result, un-comment the <code>console.log</code> removing the double slash (<code>//</code>). You&rsquo;ll need to open the <strong>console</strong> by clicking on the <strong>Console</strong> button in the bottom left corner of the Codepen.</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const expressionOne = ((2 * 2) + 5) * 6;
// console.log(expressionOne);

const expressionTwo = ((2* 2) + (5 * 3)) - 5;
// console.log(expressionTwo);

const expressionThree = (5 * 5) / (5 * 5);
// console.log(expressionThree);

const expressionFour = 5 * 5 - 5 * 4;
// console.log(expressionFour);
</code></pre>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">const expressionOne = ((2 * 2) + 5) * 6;
console.log(expressionOne); // ==&gt; 54

const expressionTwo = ((2* 2) + (5 * 3)) - 5;
console.log(expressionTwo); // ==&gt; 14

const expressionThree = (5 * 5) / (5 * 5);
console.log(expressionThree); // ==&gt; 1

const expressionFour = 5 * 5 - 5 * 4;
console.log(expressionFour); // ==&gt; 5
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<p><br /><br /></p>
<hr />
<h4 class="raw">2. Omelette Du Fromage</h4>
<p></p>
<p>To start, open a new <strong>pen</strong> on <strong>Codepen</strong> and <strong>copy/paste</strong> the below <strong>starter code</strong>:</p>
<pre><code class="js hljs raw">const cheeseCalories = 200;

const eggsRequired = 4;
const caloriesPerEgg = 75;

let eggsCalories;


// Your code here:

</code></pre>
<p></p>
<p>Above we can see an unfinished recipe. So, with the ingredients provided (cheese and 4 eggs) let&rsquo;s prepare Dexter&rsquo;s famous <em>Omelette Du Fromage</em> and check how many calories it has!</p>
<p>Your task is to calculate the total amount of calories using the values already provided in the starter code:</p>
<ol>
<li class="raw">
<p>Initialize the existing variable <code>eggsCalories</code> by assigning it the number of total calories calculated for the 4 eggs required for the recipe.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Note:</strong> To get the total calories for 4 eggs use the existing variables <code>eggsRequired</code> and <code>caloriesPerEgg</code>.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to print the value of <code>eggsCalories</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong> <code>300</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Declare and initialize a new variable named <code>omeletteDuFromageCalories</code> that will have, as its value, the sum of the calories from all ingredients (<code>cheeseCalories</code> and <code>eggsCalories</code>).</p>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Use <code>console.log()</code> to see print the value of <code>eggsCalories</code>.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong> <code>500</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li class="raw">
<p>Assuming this omelette serving size is 2 portions, <code>console.log()</code> (without creating a new variable) the value of calories per one serving.</p>
<blockquote class="raw">
<p><strong>Expected console output:</strong> <code>250</code></p>
</blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p></p>
<div class="alert alert-success"><details style="font-size: 14px; cursor: pointer; outline: none; color: #575d70;"> <summary>Solution</summary> <br />
<pre><code class="javascript hljs raw">let cheeseCalories = 200;

let eggsRequired = 4;
let caloriesPerEgg = 75;

let eggsCalories;


// 1. Calculate total calories for the 4 eggs
eggsCalories = eggsRequired * caloriesPerEgg;

// 2. console.log total calories for the 4 eggs
console.log(eggsCalories);


// 3. Declare a new variable to store the total calories sum
let omeletteDuFromageCalories = cheeseCalories + eggsCalories;

// 4. console.log total calories for the recipe
console.log(omeletteDuFromageCalories);


// 5. console.log total calories per serving
console.log(omeletteDuFromageCalories / 2);
</code></pre>
</details></div>
<hr />